provider/object-storage-resources.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2017, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-12-17"

keywords: terraform provider plugin, terraform data source cos, terraform data source object storage, terraform get cloud object storage bucket, terraform get object storage resources

subcollection: terraform

---

{:beta: .beta}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:important: .important}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:preview: .preview}
{:screen: .screen}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:tip: .tip}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}
{:step: data-tutorial-type='step'}

# Object Storage resources
{: #object-storage-resources}

Review the [{{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-about-cloud-object-storage) resources that you can create, modify, or delete. You can reference the output parameters for each resource in other resources or data sources by using [Terraform interpolation syntax](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration-0-11/interpolation.html){: external}. 
{: shortdesc}

Before you start working with your resource, make sure to review the [required parameters](/docs/terraform?topic=terraform-provider-reference#required-parameters) that you need to specify in the `provider` block of your Terraform configuration file. 
{: important}

## `ibm_cos_bucket`
{: #cos-bucket}

Create or delete an {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} bucket. The bucket is used to store your data. For more information, about configuration options, see [Create some buckets to store your data](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-getting-started-cloud-object-storage#gs-create-buckets). 

To create a bucket, you must provision an {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} instance first by using the [`ibm_resource_instance`](/docs/terraform?topic=terraform-resource-mgmt-resources#resource-instance) resource.
{: note}

### Sample Terraform code
{: #cos-bucket-sample}

The following example creates an instance of {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}, {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}}, and {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}}. Then, multiple buckets are created and configured to send audit events and metrics to your service instances.  
{: shortdesc}

```
data "ibm_resource_group" "cos_group" {
  name = "cos-resource-group"
}

resource "ibm_resource_instance" "cos_instance" {
  name              = "cos-instance"
  resource_group_id = data.ibm_resource_group.cos_group.id
  service           = "cloud-object-storage"
  plan              = "standard"
  location          = "global"
}

resource "ibm_resource_instance" "activity_tracker" {
  name              = "activity_tracker"
  resource_group_id = data.ibm_resource_group.cos_group.id
  service           = "logdnaat"
  plan              = "lite"
  location          = "us-south"
}
resource "ibm_resource_instance" "metrics_monitor" {
  name              = "metrics_monitor"
  resource_group_id = data.ibm_resource_group.cos_group.id
  service           = "sysdig-monitor"
  plan              = "lite"
  location          = "us-south"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "standard-ams03" {
  bucket_name          = "a-standard-bucket-at-ams"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  single_site_location = "ams03"
  storage_class        = "standard"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "flex-us-south" {
  bucket_name          = "a-flex-bucket-at-us-south"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  region_location      = "us-south"
  storage_class        = "flex"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "cold-ap" {
  bucket_name           = "a-cold-bucket-at-ap"
  resource_instance_id  = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location = "ap"
  storage_class         = "cold"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "standard-ams03-firewall" {
  bucket_name          = "a-standard-bucket-at-ams-firewall"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location      = "us"
  storage_class        = "standard"
 activity_tracking {
    read_data_events     = true
    write_data_events    = true
    activity_tracker_crn = ibm_resource_instance.activity_tracker.id
  }
  metrics_monitoring {
    usage_metrics_enabled  = true
    metrics_monitoring_crn = ibm_resource_instance.metrics_monitor.id
  }
  allowed_ip =  ["223.196.168.27","223.196.161.38","192.168.0.1"]
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "flex-us-south-firewall" {
  bucket_name          = "a-flex-bucket-at-us-south"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location      = "us"
  storage_class        = "flex"
 activity_tracking {
    read_data_events     = true
    write_data_events    = true
    activity_tracker_crn = ibm_resource_instance.activity_tracker.id
  }
  metrics_monitoring {
    usage_metrics_enabled  = true
    metrics_monitoring_crn = ibm_resource_instance.metrics_monitor.id
  }
  allowed_ip =  ["223.196.168.27","223.196.161.38","192.168.0.1"]
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "cold-ap-firewall" {
  bucket_name          = "a-cold-bucket-at-ap"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location      = "us"
  storage_class        = "cold"
 activity_tracking {
    read_data_events     = true
    write_data_events    = true
    activity_tracker_crn = ibm_resource_instance.activity_tracker.id
  }
  metrics_monitoring {
    usage_metrics_enabled  = true
    metrics_monitoring_crn = ibm_resource_instance.metrics_monitor.id
  }
  allowed_ip =  ["223.196.168.27","223.196.161.38","192.168.0.1"]
}

### Configure archive and expire rules on COS Bucket

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "archive_expire_rule_cos" {
  bucket_name          = "a-bucket-archive-expire"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  region_location      = "us-south"
  storage_class        = "standard"
  force_delete         = true
  archive_rule {
    rule_id = "a-bucket-arch-rule"
    enable  = true
    days    = 0
    type    = "GLACIER"
  }
  expire_rule {
    rule_id = "a-bucket-expire-rule"
    enable  = true
    days    = 30
    prefix  = "logs/"
  }
}

### Configure expire rule to prepare a COS Bucket with a large number of objects for deletion

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "expire_rule_cos" {
  bucket_name          = "a-bucket-expire"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  region_location      = "us-south"
  storage_class        = "standard"
  force_delete         = true
  expire_rule {
    rule_id = "a-bucket-expire-rule"
    enable  = true
    days    = 1
  }
}
```

### Input parameters
{: #hpvs-cos-bucket-input}

Review the input parameters that you can specify for your resource. 
{: shortdesc}

| Input parameter | Data type | Required / optional | Description |
| ------------- |-------------| ----- | -------------- |
| `activity_tracking`| Object to enable auditing with {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} | Optional | Configure your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance and the type of events that you want to send to your service to audit activity against your bucket. For a list of supported actions, see [Bucket actions](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-at-events#at-actions-mngt-2).|
|`activity_tracking.read_data_events`| Boolean| Required | If set to **true**, all read events against a bucket are sent to your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance.|
|`activity_tracking.write_data_events`| Boolean| Required| If set to **true**, all write events against a bucket are sent to your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance.|
|`activity_tracking.activity_tracker_crn`| String| Required | The CRN of your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance that you want to send your events to. This value is required only when you configure your instance for the first time.|
| `allowed_ip` | Array of strings | Optional | A list of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses in CIDR notation that you want to allow access to your {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} bucket.|
| `bucket_name` | String | Required | The name of the bucket. |
| `cross_region_location` | String | Optional | Specify the cross-regional bucket location. Supported values are `us`, `eu`, and `ap`. If you use this parameter, do not set `single_site_location` or `region_location` at the same time. |
|`endpoint_type`| String | Optional | The type of the endpoint either public or private to be used for buckets. Default value is `public`.|
|`force_delete`|Bool| Optional | As the default value set to `true`, it will delete all the objects in the COS Bucket and then delete the bucket. **Note:** `force_delete` will timeout on buckets with a large amount of objects. 24 hours before you delete the bucket you can set an expire rule to remove all the files over a day old.|
| `key_protect` | String | Optional | The CRN of the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} root key that you want to use to encrypt data that is sent and stored in {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. Before you can enable {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} encryption, you must provision an instance of {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} and authorize the service to access {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. For more information, see [Server-Side Encryption with IBM Key Protect or Hyper Protect Crypto Services (SSE-KP)](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-encryption). |
|`metrics_monitoring`| Object to enable metrics tracking with {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} | Optional| Set up your {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} service instance to receive metrics for your {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} bucket.|
|`metrics_monitoring.usage_metrics_enabled`|Boolean|Optional|If set to **true**, all metrics are sent to your {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} service instance.|
|`metrics_monitoring.metrics_monitoring_crn`|String|Required| The CRN of the {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} service instance that you want to send metrics to. This value is required only when you configure your instance for the first time.|
| `resource_instance_id` | String | Required | The ID of the {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} service instance for which you want to create a bucket. |
| `region_location` | String | Optional | The location of a regional bucket. Supported values are `au-syd`, `eu-de`, `eu-gb`, `jp-tok`, `us-east`, `us-south`. If you set this parameter, do not set `single_site_location` or `cross_region_location` at the same time.|
| `single_site_location` | String | Optional | The location for a single site bucket. Supported values are: `ams03`, `che01`, `hkg02`, `mel01`, `mex01`, `mil01`, `mon01`, `osl01`, `par01`, `sjc04`, `sao01`, `seo01`, `sng01`, and `tor01`. If you set this parameter, do not set `region_location` or `cross_region_location` at the same time.|
| `storage_class` | String | Required | The storage class that you want to use for the bucket. Supported values are `standard`, `vault`, `cold`, `flex`, and `smart`. For more information, about storage classes, see [Use storage classes](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-classes).|
| `archive_rule` | List | Required | Nested archive_rule block has following structure. |
| `archive_rule.rule_id` | String (Computed) | Optional | The unique ID for the rule. Archive rules allow you to set a specific time frame after the objects transition to the archive. |
| `archive_rule.enable` | Bool | Required | Specifies archive rule status either `enable` or `disable` for a bucket. |
| `archive_rule.days` | String | Required | Specifies the number of days when the specific rule action takes effect. |
| `archive_rule.type` | String | Required | Specifies the storage class or archive type to which you want the object to transition. Allowed values are `Glacier` or `Accelerated`. **Note** Archive is available in certain regions only. For more information, see [Integrated Services](/docs/cloud-object-storage/basics?topic=cloud-object-storage-service-availability). |
| `expire_rule` | List | Required | Nested expire_rule block has following structure. |
| `expire_rule.rule_id` | String (Computed) | Optional | Unique ID for the rule. Expire rules allow you to set a specific time frame after which objects are deleted. |
| `expire_rule.enable` | Bool | Required | Specifies expire rule status either `enable` or `disable` for a bucket. |
| `expire_rule.days` | String | Required | Specifies the number of days when the specific rule action takes effect. |
| `expire_rule.prefix ` | String | Optional | Specifies a prefix filter to apply to only a subset of objects with names that match the prefix. |


Both `archive_rule` and `expire_rule` must be managed by Terraform as they use the same lifecycle configuration. If user creates any of the rule outside of Terraform by using CLI or UI, you can see unexpected difference like removal of any of the rule or one rule overrides another. The policy cannot match as expected due to API limitations, as the lifecycle is a single API request for both archive and expire.
{: note}

### Output parameters
{: #hpvs-cos-bucket-output}

Review the output parameters that you can access after your resource is created. 
{: shortdesc}

| Output parameter | Data type | Description |
| ------------- |-------------| -------------- |
| `crn` | String | The CRN of the bucket. |
| `cross_region_location` | String | The location if you created a cross-regional bucket. |
| `id` | String | The ID of the bucket. | 
| `key_protect` | String | The CRN of the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} instance that you use to encrypt your data in {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. |
| `region_location` | String | The location if you created a regional bucket. |
| `resource_instance_id` | String | The ID of {site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} instance. | 
| `single_site_location` | String | The location if you created a single site bucket. |
| `storage_class` | String | The storage class of the bucket. |

### Import

The `ibm_cos_bucket` resource can be imported by using the `id`. The ID is formed from the `CRN` (Cloud Resource Name), the `bucket type` which must be `ssl` for single_site_location, `rl` for region_location or `crl` for cross_region_location, and the bucket location. The `CRN` and bucket location can be found on the portal.

id = `$CRN:meta:$buckettype:$bucketlocation`

**Syntax**

```
terraform import ibm_cos_bucket.mybucket <crn>

```
{: pre}

**Example**

```

terraform import ibm_cos_bucket.mybucket crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/4ea1882a2d3401ed1e459979941966ea:31fa970d-51d0-4b05-893e-251cba75a7b3:bucket:mybucketname:meta:crl:eu:public

```
{: pre}

Commit message:

Geetha Sathyamurthy: Merge pull request #190 from alchemy-writers/on-ibm-cloud

provider/object-storage-resources.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2017, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-12-18"

keywords: terraform provider plugin, terraform data source cos, terraform data source object storage, terraform get cloud object storage bucket, terraform get object storage resources

subcollection: terraform

---

{:beta: .beta}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:important: .important}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:preview: .preview}
{:screen: .screen}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:tip: .tip}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}
{:step: data-tutorial-type='step'}

# Object Storage resources
{: #object-storage-resources}

Review the [{{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-about-cloud-object-storage) resources that you can create, modify, or delete. You can reference the output parameters for each resource in other resources or data sources by using [Terraform on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} interpolation syntax](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration-0-11/interpolation.html){: external}. 
{: shortdesc}

Before you start working with your resource, make sure to review the [required parameters](/docs/terraform?topic=terraform-provider-reference#required-parameters) that you need to specify in the `provider` block of your Terraform on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} configuration file. 
{: important}

## `ibm_cos_bucket`
{: #cos-bucket}

Create or delete an {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} bucket. The bucket is used to store your data. For more information, about configuration options, see [Create some buckets to store your data](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-getting-started-cloud-object-storage#gs-create-buckets). 

To create a bucket, you must provision an {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} instance first by using the [`ibm_resource_instance`](/docs/terraform?topic=terraform-resource-mgmt-resources#resource-instance) resource.
{: note}

### Sample Terraform on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} code
{: #cos-bucket-sample}

The following example creates an instance of {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}, {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}}, and {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}}. Then, multiple buckets are created and configured to send audit events and metrics to your service instances.  
{: shortdesc}

```
data "ibm_resource_group" "cos_group" {
  name = "cos-resource-group"
}

resource "ibm_resource_instance" "cos_instance" {
  name              = "cos-instance"
  resource_group_id = data.ibm_resource_group.cos_group.id
  service           = "cloud-object-storage"
  plan              = "standard"
  location          = "global"
}

resource "ibm_resource_instance" "activity_tracker" {
  name              = "activity_tracker"
  resource_group_id = data.ibm_resource_group.cos_group.id
  service           = "logdnaat"
  plan              = "lite"
  location          = "us-south"
}
resource "ibm_resource_instance" "metrics_monitor" {
  name              = "metrics_monitor"
  resource_group_id = data.ibm_resource_group.cos_group.id
  service           = "sysdig-monitor"
  plan              = "lite"
  location          = "us-south"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "standard-ams03" {
  bucket_name          = "a-standard-bucket-at-ams"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  single_site_location = "ams03"
  storage_class        = "standard"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "flex-us-south" {
  bucket_name          = "a-flex-bucket-at-us-south"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  region_location      = "us-south"
  storage_class        = "flex"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "cold-ap" {
  bucket_name           = "a-cold-bucket-at-ap"
  resource_instance_id  = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location = "ap"
  storage_class         = "cold"
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "standard-ams03-firewall" {
  bucket_name          = "a-standard-bucket-at-ams-firewall"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location      = "us"
  storage_class        = "standard"
 activity_tracking {
    read_data_events     = true
    write_data_events    = true
    activity_tracker_crn = ibm_resource_instance.activity_tracker.id
  }
  metrics_monitoring {
    usage_metrics_enabled  = true
    metrics_monitoring_crn = ibm_resource_instance.metrics_monitor.id
  }
  allowed_ip =  ["223.196.168.27","223.196.161.38","192.168.0.1"]
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "flex-us-south-firewall" {
  bucket_name          = "a-flex-bucket-at-us-south"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location      = "us"
  storage_class        = "flex"
 activity_tracking {
    read_data_events     = true
    write_data_events    = true
    activity_tracker_crn = ibm_resource_instance.activity_tracker.id
  }
  metrics_monitoring {
    usage_metrics_enabled  = true
    metrics_monitoring_crn = ibm_resource_instance.metrics_monitor.id
  }
  allowed_ip =  ["223.196.168.27","223.196.161.38","192.168.0.1"]
}

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "cold-ap-firewall" {
  bucket_name          = "a-cold-bucket-at-ap"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  cross_region_location      = "us"
  storage_class        = "cold"
 activity_tracking {
    read_data_events     = true
    write_data_events    = true
    activity_tracker_crn = ibm_resource_instance.activity_tracker.id
  }
  metrics_monitoring {
    usage_metrics_enabled  = true
    metrics_monitoring_crn = ibm_resource_instance.metrics_monitor.id
  }
  allowed_ip =  ["223.196.168.27","223.196.161.38","192.168.0.1"]
}

### Configure archive and expire rules on COS Bucket

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "archive_expire_rule_cos" {
  bucket_name          = "a-bucket-archive-expire"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  region_location      = "us-south"
  storage_class        = "standard"
  force_delete         = true
  archive_rule {
    rule_id = "a-bucket-arch-rule"
    enable  = true
    days    = 0
    type    = "GLACIER"
  }
  expire_rule {
    rule_id = "a-bucket-expire-rule"
    enable  = true
    days    = 30
    prefix  = "logs/"
  }
}

### Configure expire rule to prepare a COS Bucket with a large number of objects for deletion

resource "ibm_cos_bucket" "expire_rule_cos" {
  bucket_name          = "a-bucket-expire"
  resource_instance_id = ibm_resource_instance.cos_instance.id
  region_location      = "us-south"
  storage_class        = "standard"
  force_delete         = true
  expire_rule {
    rule_id = "a-bucket-expire-rule"
    enable  = true
    days    = 1
  }
}
```

### Input parameters
{: #hpvs-cos-bucket-input}

Review the input parameters that you can specify for your resource. 
{: shortdesc}

| Input parameter | Data type | Required / optional | Description |
| ------------- |-------------| ----- | -------------- |
| `activity_tracking`| Object to enable auditing with {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} | Optional | Configure your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance and the type of events that you want to send to your service to audit activity against your bucket. For a list of supported actions, see [Bucket actions](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-at-events#at-actions-mngt-2).|
|`activity_tracking.read_data_events`| Boolean| Required | If set to **true**, all read events against a bucket are sent to your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance.|
|`activity_tracking.write_data_events`| Boolean| Required| If set to **true**, all write events against a bucket are sent to your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance.|
|`activity_tracking.activity_tracker_crn`| String| Required | The CRN of your {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull_notm}} service instance that you want to send your events to. This value is required only when you configure your instance for the first time.|
| `allowed_ip` | Array of strings | Optional | A list of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses in CIDR notation that you want to allow access to your {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} bucket.|
| `bucket_name` | String | Required | The name of the bucket. |
| `cross_region_location` | String | Optional | Specify the cross-regional bucket location. Supported values are `us`, `eu`, and `ap`. If you use this parameter, do not set `single_site_location` or `region_location` at the same time. |
|`endpoint_type`| String | Optional | The type of the endpoint either public or private to be used for buckets. Default value is `public`.|
|`force_delete`|Bool| Optional | As the default value set to `true`, it will delete all the objects in the COS Bucket and then delete the bucket. **Note:** `force_delete` will timeout on buckets with a large amount of objects. 24 hours before you delete the bucket you can set an expire rule to remove all the files over a day old.|
| `key_protect` | String | Optional | The CRN of the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} root key that you want to use to encrypt data that is sent and stored in {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. Before you can enable {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} encryption, you must provision an instance of {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} and authorize the service to access {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. For more information, see [Server-Side Encryption with IBM Key Protect or Hyper Protect Crypto Services (SSE-KP)](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-encryption). |
|`metrics_monitoring`| Object to enable metrics tracking with {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} | Optional| Set up your {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} service instance to receive metrics for your {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} bucket.|
|`metrics_monitoring.usage_metrics_enabled`|Boolean|Optional|If set to **true**, all metrics are sent to your {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} service instance.|
|`metrics_monitoring.metrics_monitoring_crn`|String|Required| The CRN of the {{site.data.keyword.mon_full_notm}} service instance that you want to send metrics to. This value is required only when you configure your instance for the first time.|
| `resource_instance_id` | String | Required | The ID of the {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} service instance for which you want to create a bucket. |
| `region_location` | String | Optional | The location of a regional bucket. Supported values are `au-syd`, `eu-de`, `eu-gb`, `jp-tok`, `us-east`, `us-south`. If you set this parameter, do not set `single_site_location` or `cross_region_location` at the same time.|
| `single_site_location` | String | Optional | The location for a single site bucket. Supported values are: `ams03`, `che01`, `hkg02`, `mel01`, `mex01`, `mil01`, `mon01`, `osl01`, `par01`, `sjc04`, `sao01`, `seo01`, `sng01`, and `tor01`. If you set this parameter, do not set `region_location` or `cross_region_location` at the same time.|
| `storage_class` | String | Required | The storage class that you want to use for the bucket. Supported values are `standard`, `vault`, `cold`, `flex`, and `smart`. For more information, about storage classes, see [Use storage classes](/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-classes).|
| `archive_rule` | List | Required | Nested archive_rule block has following structure. |
| `archive_rule.rule_id` | String (Computed) | Optional | The unique ID for the rule. Archive rules allow you to set a specific time frame after the objects transition to the archive. |
| `archive_rule.enable` | Bool | Required | Specifies archive rule status either `enable` or `disable` for a bucket. |
| `archive_rule.days` | String | Required | Specifies the number of days when the specific rule action takes effect. |
| `archive_rule.type` | String | Required | Specifies the storage class or archive type to which you want the object to transition. Allowed values are `Glacier` or `Accelerated`. **Note** Archive is available in certain regions only. For more information, see [Integrated Services](/docs/cloud-object-storage/basics?topic=cloud-object-storage-service-availability). |
| `expire_rule` | List | Required | Nested expire_rule block has following structure. |
| `expire_rule.rule_id` | String (Computed) | Optional | Unique ID for the rule. Expire rules allow you to set a specific time frame after which objects are deleted. |
| `expire_rule.enable` | Bool | Required | Specifies expire rule status either `enable` or `disable` for a bucket. |
| `expire_rule.days` | String | Required | Specifies the number of days when the specific rule action takes effect. |
| `expire_rule.prefix ` | String | Optional | Specifies a prefix filter to apply to only a subset of objects with names that match the prefix. |


Both `archive_rule` and `expire_rule` must be managed by Terraform on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} as they use the same lifecycle configuration. If user creates any of the rule outside of Terraform on {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} by using CLI or UI, you can see unexpected difference like removal of any of the rule or one rule overrides another. The policy cannot match as expected due to API limitations, as the lifecycle is a single API request for both archive and expire.
{: note}

### Output parameters
{: #hpvs-cos-bucket-output}

Review the output parameters that you can access after your resource is created. 
{: shortdesc}

| Output parameter | Data type | Description |
| ------------- |-------------| -------------- |
| `crn` | String | The CRN of the bucket. |
| `cross_region_location` | String | The location if you created a cross-regional bucket. |
| `id` | String | The ID of the bucket. | 
| `key_protect` | String | The CRN of the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicelong_notm}} instance that you use to encrypt your data in {{site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}}. |
| `region_location` | String | The location if you created a regional bucket. |
| `resource_instance_id` | String | The ID of {site.data.keyword.cos_full_notm}} instance. | 
| `single_site_location` | String | The location if you created a single site bucket. |
| `storage_class` | String | The storage class of the bucket. |

### Import

The `ibm_cos_bucket` resource can be imported by using the `id`. The ID is formed from the `CRN` (Cloud Resource Name), the `bucket type` which must be `ssl` for single_site_location, `rl` for region_location or `crl` for cross_region_location, and the bucket location. The `CRN` and bucket location can be found on the portal.

id = `$CRN:meta:$buckettype:$bucketlocation`

**Syntax**

```
terraform import ibm_cos_bucket.mybucket <crn>

```
{: pre}

**Example**

```

terraform import ibm_cos_bucket.mybucket crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/4ea1882a2d3401ed1e459979941966ea:31fa970d-51d0-4b05-893e-251cba75a7b3:bucket:mybucketname:meta:crl:eu:public

```
{: pre}
